I used to start my videos by saying no
intro new outro just real talk but if
you say that at the start of every video
then saying no intro becomes you're in
Tripoli I'm gonna play this clip and
then give you some commentary at the end
of it when we talk about politics it's
important that we don't just talk about
what we believe that we don't just talk
about what we know we don't just talk
about the decisions we make but that we
also talk about the role of desire what
it was we wanted or yearned for that
drove those decisions and the guy you're
about to hear from has been quite honest
in making a video it's a smash hit video
and I understand why where he talks
about his own descent from being a kind
of mainstream left-of-center progressive
kind of person to being an alt right
racist on the verge of the right fascism
you know eventually as I was looking
through all these videos this little
video is youtuber popped up in my
sidebar and you know had an interesting
like click beta title and it was
something about the truth about therapy
or it was it was something you know
something to do with depression and
self-help and bettering yourself and
looked interesting to me and clicked on
it and it was this Canadian you to her
and I think you guys know Warren going
with this Stefan resonated with me
Stefan resonated with me because Stefan
had shared the same experiences that I
had shared Stefan he had a traumatic
childhood he had issues with his mother
he had issues with the rest of his
family he had issues with the society
around him he was angry society around
him that never stepped in and did
anything to help him to help him escape
from that childhood pain and that trauma
that he carried with him and these were
all things that I felt
is so true to me then he talked you know
he he started talking about how he was
able to get out of it and you know and
basically like he blamed a lot of his
situation on liberalism my mind I set
him up as an authority figure
I was uneducated and when he would feed
me this information about history and
about you know what he saw as scientific
facts and this theories his social
commentaries because of the benefits
that I'd gotten from him and the pain
that he'd relieved from me I built I
assumed I assumed he was honest or at
least at the very least I assumed that
he was correct and you know it happened
so fast you know I started out as a
libertarian Miami when I would provide
Stefan's content before that I was a
liberal if then as I listened to stuff
on it picked up libertarian ideas which
transitioned into you know
anarcho-capitalist ideas and but what
well what happened was I would get to a
point where you know I wanted the
libertarianism because I wanted a free
society but did I realize that well we
can't have a free society if there isn't
social cohesion and there isn't a strong
structure to bind us together and I
started to believe that we needed strong
borders and we needed a national
identity and we needed to raise the
birth rates and to me it wasn't
necessarily white birth rates I saw it
more as like we needed more intelligent
people having children and then as I
as I started to learn more as I listen
to people like Jared Taylor or you know
Molyneux have started putting out a lot
more race content talking about race I
race an IQ talking about the bell curve
and you know they use this term called
race realism and the idea is that
there's differences in the races
depending on where they evolved in the
world and that you know these are
inexplicable these are were they're
immutable you know they're tied to
biology and that we can't escape them
necessarily and so I bought into that
and because of that I started to see
society as a product of this company you
know the the combination between culture
and race and race being so important
because it's tied to IQ
collectively ethnicities around the
world tend to act differently they tend
to have different incomes they tend to
have differential stability they tend to
have different rates of criminality they
tend to have different rates of
different accumulations of assets they
tend to have different levels of
education you go on and on and on now if
there's any genetic component to that
and I believe that there is nobody knows
too sure it's just a belief then you
cannot run a high IQ society with low IQ
people so this young man has had the
courage to come out and really give us a
diagram of his own downward spiral as he
lazily clicked from one YouTube video to
the next and made a series of political
set decisions that drew him from
mainstream
left-of-centre liberal progressive
values down down down into darker and
darker more authoritarian ultimately
more racist view of the world and he
puts emphasis on how easy and effortless
this was for him because of the nature
of social media because of the way
YouTube presents all this to you and his
own unquestioning and unsophisticated
character when he embraces at this time
I also give him a lot of credit that he
describes very well his emotional frame
of mind what it was he wanted what it
was he yearned for
what it was he felt dissatisfied within
his own culture and its own family in
his own upbringing in his own education
in his own career what it was that put
him in this ID in a receptive emotional
state okay I think it's very very
important than when we talk about
politics when we talk about our own
political autobiographies to put it that
way that we have a sense of the role of
desire that desire is something
tremendously important apart from
knowledge or belief what we know and
what we believe to a very large extent
is something we are born into I think
we've got to deal with four categories
here one there are the political beliefs
the political ideologies that were born
into there are the political ideologies
that we did not choose ourselves but
that our parents chose for us and then
at some stage at some age of our lives
we become the ones to blame whether we
reject those and take on new ideologies
or if we conform to them but at some
point it's not just that your parents
were Republicans if you're 25 years old
and you're still in the Republican Party
it's become your choice even if choice
you made the first place right and of
course a large percentage of us question
and reject the political assumptions are
our parents had we joined some other
political party take notes so this this
is the first distinction the ideologies
we chose for ourselves and the
ideologies that are chosen for us and
the second distinction I want to make
here is the tricky distinction between
religious and secular political beliefs
because the problem is that political
beliefs they're binding and they
transform our lives in a profound way
that really does resemble religion if
you don't believe it google the history
of communism real quick and guys if you
didn't know my parents were communists
my parents weren't moderate moderate
communists my parents were communists
extremists and obviously I mean this
this young man does a good job of
describing in these subtle steps towards
racism scientistic racism the completely
phony and insincere race in IQ debate
that's shaped the way you perceive the
whole world not just issues like
immigration but
obviously the history of Empire and
history of the British Empire thirst or
the French Empire colonialism why the
map of the world is the way it is why
people in Australia and America speak
English and not indigenous languages
there's a lot built into this
it's a worldview that's kind of
corrosive and it changed the way he
perceived himself he mentioned also by
the way he used to have friends that
were gay and friends that were black
friends that were races other than white
and he said even though there was never
an open a mutual rejection as he got
more into this political ideology they
picked up on the vibe and those those
friends all stopped talking to him which
is also interesting so again it's like
it is like joining a religion if I
converted to Mormonism the people who
helped me even if I even if I didn't
reject them they didn't reject me they
would pick up on the vibe and you know
slowly you find yourself in a situation
where all your friends are just your
fellow believers so I mean religious
ideology and political ideology they are
profoundly similar but there's an
important difference as follows
religious ideology often makes people
feel that they're part of a marginal
fringe group even whether or not they
are the leaders that are important to
you if you're a white person who
converts to Hinduism the politics you
care about those political leaders are
not being affirmed in their importance
in the newspapers on the radio the news
on TV and if you're let's just say
you're a white Australian who gets into
Hindu Transcendental Meditation and then
joins one of the big big churches of
Hinduism that have been repackaged and
popularized for a white audience you're
suddenly drawn into a world of political
and religious ideological concerns that
are either not mentioned in the
newspaper at all or are just barely
sneeringly mentioned in the newspaper
once in a while when there's a
controversy about corruption or sexual
exploitation of cult members or
something like this and you are always
going to feel a sense of embarrassment
just because the people you consider
important political leaders
are regarded as marginal as people of no
importance in the mainstream political
discourse right and that's really
inverted for explicitly a political
ideology so when I was raised in in
communism even if the newspapers were
criticizing the leader of China even if
the newspapers were criticizing the
leader of the Soviet Union this is
before 1989 they were still showing
their photos on the front page they were
still being covered on the news every
night it was being said again and again
these are the most important people in
the world these are the most important
questions of ethics and politics and
economics that the questions being
raised by communists that they really
mattered and the questions being raised
by your crazy Hindu temple or your cult
group they're not on the news that way
they're not in the newspaper in that way
and children raised in those ideologies
I think even if they were true believers
they feel that sense of embarrassment
that when they go to school or when they
go to the grocery store they know ok now
I'm out in the real world where my
ideology doesn't matter where most
people it's not even that they're
against my cult group it's not even that
they're like against Mormonism or
against Hinduism it's just like who is
what do you what these questions you
care about in your leaders they don't
matter in the real world and political
leaders explicitly political ideologies
they do matter in the real world so look
what has changed with the emergence of
social media has the barrier to entry
gotten lower yes people no longer have
to actually go to the library and get
out a copy of the communist manifesto
people don't have to Rio I guess they
never did though
I mean I guess in the old days there
were other forms of outreach where you
know the Communists would come to you
and they try to convert you and bring
you into a groove I mean in a sense look
I was gonna say it's easier because all
you have to do is sit there and click on
YouTube videos but you know what in a
sense more of the work is being done by
you by the ideologue by the victim of
this ideologies like in private you
alone have to do all the work and have
to do all the thinking
nobody's coming nobody's coming to do it
for you so I wrote about this years ago
but there's this sense in which the
model of the cult is becoming more and
more self-directed that people become on
a minuscule scale their own little cult
leader where they're the one putting
together the ideology they're the one
making these choices and choosing and
putting it together and it is quite a
contrast to the way the explicit leader
of a communist cell would recruit people
in the old days let's just say in the
1960s it is a contrast to the way the
leader of a Hindu cult group would go
out and recruit people and where they
would really know they would have a
face-to-face relationship with the
leader of the cult group whether it's
Hindu or or communist where they would
physically receive a pamphlet on paper
from those people and then soon enough
once you join the cult you might be one
of the people standing on the street
handing out the pamphlets and trying to
recruit people the loss of the
face-to-face interactions and the loss
of any kind of relationship with a
charismatic leader and the loss of a
relationship of authority let's never
forget that there's no one telling you
what to believe or what to do that
instead you get to put together your own
bird's nest you get to put together the
bits and pieces you you choose that's
also a part of this guy's story
he mentioned specifically that once he
got into this right-wing fringe group he
never believed the anti-semitic element
of it as his choice you know so if you
join an old-fashioned cult there were no
choice like that either you're joining
or you're leaving where it's it's become
porous and self self selected that way I
think that this kind of examination
whether it's directed inwardly or
directed outwardly like whether it's a
young man like this reflecting on
himself and why he made these choices or
if it's directed out and we're
criticizing criticizing the
organizations that are recruiting people
this way we're just criticizing the
YouTube channels that are influencing
people this way I think what it
ultimately has to lead to though is the
examination of the desire that leads
people in and guides them through this
this process what did you want
what was it you yearned for and I'm not
even presuming it's something dark and
terrible and dangerous you know maybe
you were yearning for a sense of
community maybe you wanted to have
colleagues maybe you wanted to have
equals who would not just agree with you
but also disagree with you and debate
what you felt were the major social
issues of your time maybe you wanted to
feel like you were part of the solution
and not part of the problem when you
looked around at the society you were
part of I remember that meant so much to
me when I was a kid about ecology it was
like there's just these huge problems
with ecology and wanting to feel like
you know is there some way I can connect
to deforestation living downtown in a
major city like with deforestation is
this huge problem how can i connect to
it and you know I really failed you know
but I remember yearning of - wanting to
feel connected to those political issues
and I see that I see that with people
not just young people middle-aged people
it could be anything it can be human
trafficking it can be any any social
issue that for some reason really gets
to them then they have this yearning you
know can they sign up for something can
they join a group can they go to an
event so they feel connected to this
issue and they feel like they are part
of the solution and not part of the
problem you know so those are not
necessarily dark destructive bad urges
but it comes down I think ultimately to
a sense of an awareness of that desire
try to have a more precise understanding
of the desires that guided you into this
and now that you're on the way out of it
now that you're just more enlightened as
to what your options are well what are
you gonna do what are you gonna do in
the next five years to make the world a
better place and yeah you know what look
maybe for a lot of us the answer is
instead the humbling and humiliating you
know nothing at all but at least with
with a precise awareness of what those
desires are you're not gonna end up
being a puppet for some ideale gee
that's offering you ultimately the
gratification of those unexamined
then at that time
[Music]